# User training

This document is for Ops team members setting up new developers to work in the GPII cloud.

## Introduction

* Ask the user about their experience with infrastructure, command-line tools, cloud computing, etc.
   * Let their responses guide how much you delve into or gloss over fine details, how much background information might be helpful, etc.

## The Speech

* You are about to be granted administrative (aka "root") access to a number of resources on the public internet, including our staging and production environments. This is a serious responsiblity! You will be able to do harm to the system!
* Measure twice, cut once.
* If you're ever in doubt about what a command will do, STOP! Then ask for help.
   1. First, ask other developers who have experience using gpii-infra
   1. Next, ask #ops in Slack, or #fluid-work or #fluid-tech in IRC
* Be ethical. Don't steal data. Don't run your startup on RtF's billing account.
* RtF pays for these resources so please destroy your cluster when you're done using it, or won't use it for a while (e.g. before the weekend).

## Overview of the system
* Go over the [Build and Release Overview slide deck](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1l8qQEvFaml_qgc0fynHScVhWseu0loytcYaFP_m0tBs/edit#slide=id.g3150fb0231_0_0) with the user.
   * Remember that many product developers don't have a lot of experience with infrastructure tools and concepts. Introduction of high-level concepts like containers, container orchestration, and automated deployment as well as a general view of how the pieces fit together is the goal; the fine details are less important.

## AWS: Creating the user's IAM
* From the AWS Dashboard, navigate to IAM controls (under Services or use the search box)
* Add User
   * Naming convention is "FirstLast", e.g. "TylerRoscoe"
   * No to "Programmatic access" (User will create an Access Key later)
   * Yes to "AWS Management Console access"
   * Choose "Autogenerated password"
   * Yes to "User must create a new password at next sign-in"
      * The [policy is here](https://console.aws.amazon.com/iam/home?region=us-east-2#/account_settings). Requirements include a minimum length and the presence of various character classes (though AWS won't tell you about these on the password change form)
* Add User to group
   * FullAdmin
* Send login link to user: https://gpii-net.signin.aws.amazon.com/console
* Send generated password to user, ask user to log in
   * User will be prompted to change password. Please do so.

## AWS: Your first cluster
* Direct user to follow the Getting Started instructions in the [gpii-infra AWS README](aws/README.md).
